# Social dynamics and behind the scenes politics in the hackintosh community

Ever since I started getting into hackintoshing, my goals always were to understand as much as possible about it and also help others with the best of my ability. I know I will never reach a level of understanding of the matter as "icons" like RehabMan, Vit6969 and others and that's fine by me. 

Everybody has his field of expertise and mine is not computing, mine is audio, humanities and social sciences. Therefore I would like to turn the focus towards the social dynamics and behind the scene politics I experienced once I delved deeper into the world of hackintoshing.

I started getting into hackintoshing about 2013/14 when a friend of mine borrowed me his system since my MacBookPro broke down and I saw the direction Apple was going with their hardware and I no longer wanted to support their business model. I've spent the next 4 years just quietly reading guides and following instructions by others since I didn't understand how it all worked in general. In 2017 I joined insanelymac because I bought a new used mainboard and the seller pointed me to a [configuration guide for this particular mainboard](https://www.insanelymac.com/forum/topic/324138-guide-install-macos-sierra-10125-on-ga-z170x-gaming-5/page/4/). I just noticed that all my posts on this thread have since been deleted – too bad you can't delete quotes within replies, huh? That's the politics part of it – we will get to that in a minute.

Anyway, this was all new, exciting. But it was also my first introduction to the politics behind hackintoshing. Prior to that I was using tools by tonymacX86 to get my system running. Back then I thought this is how you do it. As I came to learn, Tonymac stuff is bad because his software is proprietary, installs kexts and other files on the system, allegedly uses some code which is open source but not credited and some stuff which shouldn't be in there at all. On top of that he would generate money by using amazon link for hardware recommendations – you get it: it's unethical. All in all, I've learned: tonymac and his tools = bad, insanelymac, Clover and Open Source = good. Okay got it. Moving forward.

As my knowledge and understanding of the hackintosh matter grew I started experimenting with OpenCore in early 2020. In may 2020 I bought a used Laptop and wanted to turn it into a Hakcintosh without using a patched DSDT by building my own EFI and config utilizing SSDTs instead. This really propelled my understanding of how Bootmanagers, ACPI Tables, Kexts, Device properties and patches work exponentially. During my research I've found this incredible resource which was written in Chinese which I translated so others could utilize it.

As my knowledge of the matter grew I started correcting personal on forums if I found that they were in the wrong about about certain solutions or fixes. And pretty soon I learned that there's a social dynamic and hierarchy in forums: you have users who need help, you have experienced users. These are fine people. But then there is a social caste called Mods and Admins. If you criticize them, even if they are technically wrong they may start bullying you, delete your posts, send you warnings, act as gate keepers. And if you are as stubborn as me you will be out-casted pretty quick.

Some of the personal in these forums are mods on each other's forums as well and they will do everything to protect their positions or even worse draw users from one forum to their own to sell their services to you. One example would be MaLd0n: he is a mod at insanelymac.com but has his own forum where he sells users patched DSDTs. And he misuses his power to pin his promotional posts camouflages as "guides" in the "genius" section to promote his patched DSDT and really badly configured aio EFIs. That's the #1 reason insanelymac is no longer mentioned in the [list of OpenCore discussion forums](https://github.com/acidanthera/OpenCorePkg/blob/master/Docs/FORUMS.md) nor are there any posts by devs on the OpenCore discussion thread on insanelymac. Toxic mods like MaLd0n and Hervé are the reasons why I left insanelymac.

So with all the disruption at insanelymac I looked into reddit and see if I could support users there and oh boy, it's even worse on r/hackintosh. It feels like this subreddit only exists for promoting OpenCore and posting Links to Dortania Guides. Any mentioning of Clover will get you a shitstorm. Anyway, I helped a lot of people there on a daily bases making use of this OC Little repo here since I know where the solutions to problems are located and since most of the guides on OC Little go more in-depth explaining how something works and why you need to apply a patch then what you will find in simple step by step guides. So I linked to guides of my repo in cases where I had a written guide which explained everything. And without any heads-up I get banned from r/hackintosh for self-promotion, posting unoriginal content and promoting pre-build EFIs which is ridiculous. "They" – whoever these faceless, nameless mods were – wanted to talk afterwards – after the verdict has already been rendered which I *kindly* refused because I got 99 problems and r/hackintosh ain't one of them.

The problem with places like forums and reddit is that it's easy for elitist gatekeepers in position of power to misuse it and there's not much you can do about it. I challenged mods on several forums and on reddit (unknowingly in this case) and that basically made me an outcast in this scene. Moral of the story is: help the users you want to help, associate and connect with users you like, block all the noise, block hostile users, ignore mods. 

As for me, I am pretty much done with everything forum and scene-related that includes middle-men that can shut you down if you offend their own political agenda: may it be selling badly patched DSDTs, suppressing support-content for Clover, or pushing the Dortania guide to become the only tolerated resource (bible) for hackintoshing. 

This scene has developed a pretty autocratic, almost totalitarian, elitist  infrastructure at the top of it as far as the forums and other places for exchanging information is concerned and I despise every last bit it. Because it stands in stark contrast to the ideals of an open society that these outlets claim to adhere to when in reality it's just about coming out on top and staying there. I am kind of glad that this scene is over once Apple pulls the plug on X86 and one cares about OpenCore and Clover any longer because then all these toxic mods will undergo an existential crisis because their whole raison d'être has become meaningless.  

– 5T33Z0
